QUESTION:
https://piazza.com/class/khl2n61z2v03xg?cid=179
Miles Roger Porter 23 days ago
Our group is considering "mining" our own dataset from Twitter.  Right now, we have two options.  One is around 100k tweets, the other is around 10k-20k.  We are thinking about doing some natural language processing (LDA topic extraction/clustering, Sentiment Analysis, etc.).  Would data of that size be considered "large" enough?
ANSWER: 
Hi Miles, thanks for your question. Do you already have access to the 10k-20k/100k tweets? If yes, have you done some preliminary analysis about how many of those tweets would eventually be helpful for your project ideas?
Often, when using Twitter as a data source, we end up dropping a significantly portion of the tweets (e.g., some are too short, or uninformative).
If you haven't yet, I suggest reading the 'What datasets are considered "large"?' box on our project description page (https://poloclub.github.io/cse6242-2021spring-online/#project), which includes our recommendations for how to think about what is considered "large" enough.


QUESTION:
Final Presentation Experiments
Looking a bit forward ahead and what to make sure we will eventually address in the proper project, I see that in the final presentation there are points allocated to an experiments and results section.
Experiments/ Evaluation
[5%] Description of your testbed; list of questions your experiments are designed to answer
[25%] Details of the experiments; observations (as many as you can!)
I just wanted to get a point of clarification. What exactly constitutes an experiment here? For example, are the experiments related to you training your model/ testing your algorithm? Or running a test on users using the application you devise? Or testing how accurate your predictions are by using them in the real world?
ANSWER:
It will of course vary from project to project. We don't really specify what you must experiment on, but we do require that it be done in a scientific manner. All the things you mentioned could be good experiments.


QUESTION:
Big Data Architecture in Group Project
To whom it may concern,
There is a little bit of a debate in my group as to whether we should use big data architecture for our final project like Hadoop, Spark, or Big Query.  Technically, it doesn't state that we have to use them in the instructions, but I feel like since we are learning about Hadoop and Spark, there does seem to be an implication that we should use them.
My question is twofold:
1) Are we allowed to simply draw our data from flat files in cloud storage for our project?
2) If so, could that have a negative impact on our grade?  In other words, could successfully implementing big data architecture ipso facto have a positive impact on our grade?
ANSWER:
Firstly, one of the main purposes of the project is to explore dealing with big data! Why avoid the opportunity to learn about and explore tools which were designed for that purpose? Have some fun with some cool tools!
But, we have no hard requirement to use or not use any particular technology. To answer your questions:
1. Sure, as long as your data is big and complex enough, we don't care what format it is in or where you store it.
2. No, there is no direct penalty for which tech you do or do not use. However, keep this (from the project description) in mind:
If you can run an algorithm or analysis on your computer and get the results in a few seconds, your dataset is likely too small (and you likely won’t learn much from this experience). Similarly, if you can plot every single data point on the screen trivially and that doesn’t create any visual complexity or interaction challenges, your data is also likely too small. In other words, you should “suffer” a little when analyzing the dataset, so that you would think about what the challenges are and how to tackle them!


QUESTION:
Project Proposal Formatting
My team is working on our project proposal, and we are already going way beyond the page limit of 2 pages, with answering all of Heilemer's questions and doing a literature survey of 15 sources. Do you have any advice on how to format the proposals to ensure we can fit all the necessary information?
We are using paragraph style, but maybe answering the 9 questions using numbering (ex. "1. Our project is going to explore xyz. 2. data is pulled in reports and shown on the web. 3. creating visualizations has never been done before") rather than complete sentences introducing the heilemer question and giving our answer would be more beneficial. I'm just not sure if these have to be formal writing in paragraph format, or if numbering and bullets are satisfactory. Otherwise, I don't see how we can possibly get this to fit on 2 pages. Any advice or recommendations is appreciated. Thanks. 
ANSWER:
Good question. In order to answer your question, and possibly help other students who might have similar questions, I'll answer with some guidance based on what we have seen over the past several semesters:
1. Your answers to the Heilmeier questions should be supported by your literature survey. Integrating them together will save a ton of space.
2. Sections (numbered if you like, not numbered if you don't like) and paragraphs is always a good approach. A two page wall of text is hard to read. You don't want a grader to miss something because you buried it somewhere that wasn't clear.
3. This is a paper. It should have complete sentences. Some numbered/bulleted lists are fine, but if you are suggesting an outline with outline wording for the whole paper, that's not a paper. That's an outline for a paper. Your headings (if you have them) don't necessarily need complete sentences though, as they are headings.
4. The references list does not count against the page count. 
5. Graphs, tables, and pictures do count against the page count.
6. You may have an appendix. We may not read it. Required information that is in the appendix will be marked as missing.
And most important:
7. We have required two pages. We don't want five pages somehow squeezed into two pages. This means, if you have five pages, you have more detail than we want. If you get down to three pages, then you still have too much detail.


QUESTION:
Project Data can be from multiple sources or not?
Hi everyone, 
Please provide your suggestions that will it be a good idea to collect data from multiple sources so that we can derive interesting results and increase complexity of our visualizations.
I saw in one of our lecture videos, professor says to not do that because it may require extra data cleaning and processing tasks.
My question is that is it totally forbidden or we can go with it if it suits our project requirements.
ANSWER:
Nope, not forbidden. Many teams source data from multiple sources. In fact, one popular way to be new and novel is to combine data sources that have not been applied together before.

QUESTION:
Usee of Overleaf Template
The project instructions suggest using Overleaf to do writeups for the project and provides a link to a template to get started. The template contains all sorts of scary-looking stipulations saying you can only use/edit it in certain ways.  For instance, section 2 says:
"Modifying the template — including but not limited to: adjusting margins, typeface sizes, line spacing, para-graph and list definitions, and the use of the \vspacecommand to manually adjust the vertical spacing be-tween elements of your work — is not allowed. Your document will be returned to you for revision if modifications are discovered."
Are we actually supposed to be aware of and comply with all these stipulations or can we ignore them and edit the template as we see fit to create a pdf for each written deliverable for our projects? 
ANSWER:
The LaTeX template that we linked to is the template for submitting papers to ACM. All those warnings about not changing the template only apply if you are going to submit your paper to ACM. You do not need to follow that for this course, so you are free to change the template.
However, if you have any inclination to eventually publish your work to ACM (or another conference, they each have their own format), by following the specified format now you would be that much closer to being ready to publish later on.
EDIT: Just to clarify, the project documents do have their own font and margin requirement which you do need to follow:
Use at least 1-inch margin for each page (top, right, bottom, left).  It must use 11pt font (or larger).


QUESTION:
Term project output
I was thinking that the output of term project should be kind of an interactive network graph. However, after watching YouTube video about Hans Rosling's stat, I realized that even scatter chart and line chart can be very informative and interesting enough if effective interactions are added.
Can anyone confirm that term project output can be any format as long as it is interactive?
ANSWER:
It depends. If a single line chart can summarize the entirety of your analysis and algorithm work, your project as a whole likely might not be complex enough. This is where "if effective interactions are added" really becomes important. For example, a line chart that is interactive and has dynamic pop outs with more info/visualization about your algorithm/analysis could be very cool.
I would say most forms of interactive visualizations could be appropriate if you can reasonably answer Heilmeier question 3 about it: "What's new in your approach? Why will it be successful?"
